my name is Brian head and I farm at
dambulla in the wimmer of Victoria and
we wheat barley lentils filled these and
broad beans and we operate a farm on a
continuous cropping rotation and our
farm is about 2,000 hectares we
purchased flexi finger-post crop lifters
last year after seeing them if you must
be for that at a at the whim of
machinery field basis and we think that
has probably paid for itself that
purchase has paid for itself time and
time again we had a problem last year in
that we had reasonably heavy crops and
we had five rain events which over the
period of harvest total of 80
millimetres across their crops whilst
our cereals was born we found that our
field peas and our lentils were pushed
into the progressively pushed down into
the ground and the Flexi fingers that we
put on made all the difference we
actually grow Morganfield peas which are
a forage pea and they're very bulky and
they had come up sort of waist high or
more and by the time we came to harvest
them it was like walking on a thin
mattress they wouldn't have been more
than 200 millimetres off the ground and
so there's this enormous amount of
material now when we first started
harvesting the peas the pods were still
in the top of the plant the peas were
probably two still two foot high and we
left quite amount of material with the
Flex front across the top that was
before we fitted the Flexi fingers and
then as the season went on we quickly
attached the Flexi fingers and by the
time we got to the end of the pea
harvest
we were literally taking this off and
rollin up like a carpet for the Flexi
fingers allowing us wearing the whole
crop to be lifted onto the platform the
interesting thing was at the end of the
pea harvest which was the very last crop
we harvested I decided I'd go back and
look at the two or three areas that we'd
harvested after each rain event and the
first part where we had not used lifters
we picked up quite a deal of grain in
fact on average probably between 250 and
350 kilograms a hectare and in several
places the monitor on the header showed
that we had left almost a ton of heat
did so the lifters whilst causing us no
problems saved us or paid for themselves
time and time again and saved us a lot
of money we found that occasionally
through a poor surface that the lifters
were working on that we might twist a
finger underneath they were very quickly
and very easily replaced and in fact
often with a careful rebending we
couldn't bend the plastic point out back
to its original shape in the lentils
same deal last year we ended up with
lentils that had had that same 5 rain
events and we found ourselves not being
able to get any lentils back off the
ground without the Flexi fingers and we
did take them on and off a number of
times just a double check as the whole
cropping the whole harvesting program
was problematic and so if we tried with
oil try without them today and we would
only go a few hundred meters and say no
we're leaving too much behind we know
better off in fact we lot worse off so
they really did pay for themselves
particularly was we were fortunate
enough after a really
bad start to the harvest with some
premature heat that literally cooked a
lot of the lentils we still gain heat
despite the rain we still gain number1
littles as a grade
although the screenings were higher I
think our screenings were somewhere in
about the 10 or 12 percent mark but
though we still gained number one
quality lentils despite the fact that
that had the rain and they were
plastered onto the ground so we're
pretty convinced that they're a good
product and in fact we're very convinced
they're good product and we've just now
received a major hailstorm across our
2010 2011 harvest and awaiting the
arrival of the cereal crop lift which is
a heavier much more robust series to
help us pick up the brain that's been
forced down by the hail so we can
recover the residual and the insurance
company's about to pay us the difference
we hope so yeah oh I personally from my
own personal experiences would recommend
flexing fingers